In computer science, artificial intelligence (Al), sometimes called machine intelligence, is intelligence demonstrated by machines,
in contrast to the natural intelligence displayed by humans. Leading Al textbooks define the field as the study of “intelligent agents’
any device that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of successfully achieving its goals."] Colloquially
the term “artificial intelligence” is often used to describe machines (or computers) that mimic “cognitive” functions that humans
associate with the human mind, such as "learning" and "problem solving”)

 

‘As machines become increasingly capable, tasks considered to require "intelligence" are often removed from the definition of Al, a
phenomenon known as the Al effect.!l A quip in Tesler's Theorem says "Al is whatever hasn't been done yet."“! For instance, optical
character recognition is frequently excluded from things considered to be Al, having become a routine technology.!*] Modern machine
capabilities generally classified as Al include successfully understanding human speech,!®! competing at the highest level in strategic
game systems (such as chess and Go),"] autonomously operating cars, intelligent routing in content delivery networks, and military
simulations.

Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and in the years since has experienced several waves of
optimism, 1191 followed by disappointment and the loss of funding (known as an "Al winter"), !"°ll'!] followed by new approaches,
‘success and renewed funding.Il'2] For most of its history, Al research has been divided into subfields that often fail to communicate
with each other!"*] These sub-fields are based on technical considerations, such as particular goals (e.g. "robotics" or "machine
learning’’),"41 the use of particular tools ("logic” or artificial neural networks), or deep philosophical differences. 151617] subfields
have also been based on social factors (particular institutions or the work of particular researchers)!"

The traditional problems (or goals) of Al research include reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, learning, natural language
processing, perception and the ability to move and manipulate objects.!'4) General intelligence is among the field's long-term goals.!"®!
‘Approaches include statistical methods, computational intelligence, and traditional symbolic Al. Many tools are used in Al, including
versions of search and mathematical optimization, artificial neural networks, and methods based on statistics, probability and
economics. The Al field draws upon computer science, information engineering, mathematics, psychology, linguistics, philosophy, and
many other fields.

The field was founded on the assumption that human intelligence "can be so precisely described that a machine can be made to
‘simulate it""] This raises philosophical arguments about the nature of the mind and the ethics of creating artificial beings endowed
with human-like intelligence. These issues have been explored by myth, fiction and philosophy since antiquity.(2°) Some people also
consider Al to be a danger to humanity if it progresses unabated."I221 Others believe that Al, unlike previous technological
revolutions, will create a risk of mass unemployment.231
